# Troubleshooting

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD036 -->

## Missing Dependencies for Build

Files added using the GNU assembler syntax `.incbin` or `.include` directives, or armasm syntax `INCBIN`, `INCLUDE`, or `GET` directives, are not included in the file dependency list. As such, the CMake/Ninja build system cannot trigger automatically a build when an file changes that is included with such directives.

Using [`execute`](YML-Input-Format.md#prepost-build-steps) in the related `cproject.yml` file overcomes this issue.
In this example the file `image.bin` is included using assembler syntax. The `touch` command changes the time stamp of the related assembler file which triggers a rebuild.

```yml
  executes:
    - execute: image_dep
      run: ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E touch $output$
      input:
        - image.bin
      output:
        - asm.s
```

!!! Tip
    Use the [`images:`](YML-Input-Format.md#images) node to add the output of external builds.

## Common Linker Problems

The following section explains how to fix common linker problems.

**Error: L6236E: No section matches selector - no section to be FIRST/LAST**

Some devices (for example, the NXP RT1064) use custom (non-CMSIS) assembly startup code. This is not compatible with the [default linker script](build-overview.md#linker-script-templates) that assumes [C Startup code](https://arm-software.github.io/CMSIS_6/v6.0.0/Core/startup_c_pg.html) with standard CMSIS definitions.

This problem can be solved by:

- Using the linker script provided by the device vendor.
- Change the linker script source file `ac6_linker_script.sct.src` that is local in your project, for example, as shown below:

```txt
  ER_ROM0 __ROM0_BASE __ROM0_SIZE {
    *(.isr_vector, +First)
    *(InRoot$$Sections)
    *(+RO +XO)
  }
```

**Using RAM1 .. RAM3 Areas**

Currently, there is a problem with the default AC6 linker script template. It does not use, by default, the RAM1 .. RAM3 area.

A potential solution is discussed [under issue #1778](https://github.com/Open-CMSIS-Pack/devtools/issues/1778#issuecomment-2356071535). The investigation is currently ongoing.

**Duplicate Heap definition in Assembler startup file**

When using memory allocation functions (i.e. `malloc`), the application ends in a hard fault handler. This is typically caused by different methods of stack and heap definitions.

The Arm Compiler offers [three ways to configure stack and heap](https://developer.arm.com/documentation/100073/0623/The-Arm-C-and-C---Libraries/Stack-and-heap-memory-allocation-and-the-Arm-C-and-C---libraries/Stack-pointer-initialization-and-heap-bounds). Only one of the following methods should be used:

- Use a linker scatter file to define `ARM_LIB_STACKHEAP`, `ARM_LIB_STACK`, or `ARM_LIB_HEAP` regions.
- Use the symbols `__initial_sp`, `__heap_base`, and `__heap_limit`.
- Implement `__user_setup_stackheap()` or `__user_initial_stackheap()`.

The [C startup code](https://arm-software.github.io/CMSIS_6/latest/Core/startup_c_pg.html) recommended by CMSIS Version 6 uses the linker scatter file for stack and heap definition.  The C startup code is generic and works across all toolchains that are supported by the CMSIS-Toolbox.

However, some assembler startup files define stack and heap with other methods, for example, by using the symbols `__initial_sp`, `__heap_base`, and `__heap_limit`.

There are two options to solve the problem.

1. Remove the stack and heap definition in the assembler startup code.

2. Disable in the [Regions Header File](CreateApplications.md#regions-header-file) the stack and heap definition by setting `__STACK_SIZE` and `__HEAP_SIZE` to 0 as shown below.  This removes the definition in the linker scatter file.

```txt
// <h> Stack / Heap Configuration
//   <o0> Stack Size (in Bytes) <0x0-0xFFFFFFFF:8>
//   <o1> Heap Size (in Bytes) <0x0-0xFFFFFFFF:8>
#define __STACK_SIZE 0x00000000
#define __HEAP_SIZE 0x00000000
// </h>
```

## GNU loader issues with Arm Compiler 6

The GNU loader that is used in some GDB Server implementations has issues with `*.axf` files that are generated by the Arm Compiler 6.

### Specify DWARF5 Format

With DWARF-4 format, the GNU loader may issue warnings such as:

```txt
warning: (Internal error: pc 0x8000914 in read in CU, but not in symtab.)
```

To solve this problem, change to DWARF-5 format. The format is typically specified in the `cdefault.yml` file.  You may create a local copy of this file in the same directory as the `*.csolution.yml` file.

```yml
default:

  misc:
    - for-compiler: AC6
      C-CPP:
        :
        - -gdwarf-5
      ASM:
        - -masm=auto
        - -gdwarf-5
```

### Generate HEX file

While AC6 generates valid ELF files, GDB may be incorrectly load the content. To bypass this problem, generate also an `type: hex` file using the [`output:`](YML-Input-Format.md#output) node in the `*.cproject.yml` file and use this HEX file to load the content.

**Example:**

```yml
project:
   :
   :   
  output:
    type:
      - elf
      - hex     # create HEX file to bypass GDB loader problem with AC6
      - map     # create MAP file (optional)
```

When a `type: hex` file is generated for AC6, the CMSIS-Toolbox configures this file in the `*.cbuild-run.yml` file with `load: image` and the `type: elf` file with `load: symbols`. This bypasses the GDB loader issue.

!!! Note
The HEX file should be generated using the Arm Compiler 6 `fromelf` tool during the build process of the application. Using a HEX conversation tool for a different toolchain may generate unpredictable results.

## Layer Search Fails

The `cbuild setup` command does not find compatible layers.

```txt
>cbuild setup xxx.csolution.yml
error csolution: undefined variables in xxx.csolution.yml:
  - $SDS-Layer$
```

The layer search of `cbuild setup` requires that the packs are defined in the `xxx.csolution.yml` file.  Ensure that the packs that define compatible layers are part of the software packs list, for example:

```yml
solution:

  # This is a CMSIS-Toolbox Reference Application that requires a compatible board layer
  # Refer to https://open-cmsis-pack.github.io/cmsis-toolbox/ReferenceApplications/ for more information

  packs:
    - pack: ARM::SDS          # search SDS pack for layers
```
